Hi everyone! I'm new here and I haven't introduced myself. After years of seeking and meditating about one year ago I discovered this nondual thing (before it was mainly mindfulness/vipassana with some Sam Harris thrown in there). I began doing more and more self inquiry and it seems that a little more than one month ago a shift happened. I was having a video meeting with an awakened person and suddenly at one point the me was clearly seen as just a thought. Laughing, crying, body shaking and so on. That lasted until the next day, then the me slowly reformed. Apparently its grip was weaker, I could still find myself caught up in the story but it was "less real", I don't know how to describe it. I walked through the gateless gate at the Liberation Unleashed forum, thanks to a nice person who guided me very patiently. I also joined various zoom meetings with Ilona Ciunaite of LU, Vince Schubert and Todd & Pernille. Since that first shift happened, a lot of doubt emerged and it was clear that 2nd fetter stuff is there to be dealt with. Of course this is just a story that appears and gets told again and again continuously, but I'm sure you know what I mean. Min is now more calm than in the past, but almost all the conditioning is still there in the body-mind complex. There's some confusion on what to do now. The mind obviously wants to do something and is always on a mission, a path is imagined and there is tension to make some "progress". I'm currently studying the material about the 2nd fetter on the channel. There's some kind of "obsession" about learning more and more, even more than in the past. I suspect this might be some form of diversion related to the 3rd fetter, but I'm not sure. When the mind is not distracted reading and listening, I try to feel feel feel as much as possible. There's this realization that no emotion can ever really hurt "me", it's just bodily sensations and thoughts. I think the main theme in my life has always been a deep form of shame, of not being enough, of secretly comparing myself to other people and hiding from their look in order not to be rejected. A lot of avoiding socialization, a lot of loneliness. This shame is now seen as a thought "I am not enough" that triggers contraction in the body and viceversa. It can be intense but as Pernille says "Can I be in a body that feels this contraction?" "Can I be in a body that can't stay with that contraction?". I'm not sure if I should go on and introduce 3rd fetter material or it's too soon and the mind just wants to avoid suffering by jumping into more ideas and concepts.
